Ladies and gentlemen,
please welcome product line manager,
server software, Apple computer,
Eric Zelenkka.
Good afternoon.
Welcome to session 801.
My name is Eric Zelenka.
I work in the product
marketing group at Apple and
responsible for server software.
It's good to see a nice turnout here.
How many of you were able to attend
the keynote session this morning?
After the keynote, we gave out this.
Mac OS X Server, Jaguar,
the developer preview.
We're really pleased to
get this into your hands.
What we're here today to talk
about is the Jaguar server,
and specifically some of the new
features and technologies that
are included in the Jaguar server,
and really what Apple's long-term
direction for server software is,
and some of the benefits of
our technology and how you can
take advantage of it and build
applications for Mac OS X Server.
So again, we'll be discussing
Apple's server strategy,
some of the new features
in Jaguar server.
We'll have some demos
of some of the features.
will discuss how Mac OS X Server is
different from Mac OS X,
specifically Jaguar Server and Jaguar,
and, again, the developer opportunities,
and leave plenty of time at the
end for question and answer.
So let's look back at the schedule.
Where has Apple come?
Really, where is Apple going, too?
It was only a year ago,
here at this conference,
2001 Developer Conference,
that we released
Mac OS X Server version 10.0.
Since then, we've been pretty busy.
In September,
we came out with the 10.1 version,
and really focused on
improving the performance,
the reliability,
and the scalability of the product.
Today, we've released into your
hands the developer preview
version of Jaguar Server,
and later this summer,
we're planning to ship Jaguar
Server to our customers.
Well, where is Apple going with servers?
When you think of Apple Computer,
you don't normally think of
Apple as a server company.
Apple's goal with servers
is to deliver innovative,
scalable server solutions.
We would really like our
products to be the premier,
high-performance,
easy-to-use server for both the
networking and internet solutions.
We also think that we can use servers
to improve the user experience.
Let me talk about this for a second.
If you think about it,
servers play a really
critical role in a network.
You use servers for, you know,
storing your email,
maybe home directories,
sharing files with other people,
watching a video broadcast.
Servers are accessing directory services.
Servers really play a key role
in the computing experience that
we have on the Macintosh today.
And it's Apple's philosophy that
we can use servers to continue to
improve the computing experience.
For Macintosh users.
So a lot of the features that
we've delivered in Jaguar
Server are meant to do just that.
To continue to improve the desktop,
the computing experience
for Macintosh users.
Before setting out to
build Jaguar Server,
we came up with a couple goals.
Number one goal is we wanted to use the
server to make it easy to deploy and
manage lots and lots of Mac OS X systems.
We wanted to use the server to enable,
you know, the perfect workgroup,
as it were.
Again, I mentioned we wanted to improve
the computing experience,
specifically for Macintosh users.
We also wanted to integrate well
with existing enterprise networks,
and at the same time,
continue to deliver the best-of-breed
internet and networking services.
So what's new?
Let me ask you a question.
Who here has had a chance to
install Jaguar Server at lunchtime?
No one?
Okay.
Well, if you would have
installed Jaguar Server,
you would have noticed right up front
some of the new features in the product,
and we'll be talking about these today.
First of all, we continue to optimize the
server operating system.
We've really placed a lot of importance
on the network file services,
specifically read and write performance.
This is a key area
that we're focusing on.
Greater multiprocessor scalability
for dual-processor systems.
We want to more efficiently
take advantage of both of the
processors that are there.
And we also want to provide
faster gigabit Ethernet support.
In the keynote this morning,
Steve mentioned that we are including
a version of the Java virtual machine
that's customized for server use.
So this is useful if you're
building WebObjects applications
that you're hosting on the server,
or you're deploying Java servlets or
Java server pages with Mac OS X Server.
The enhancements and the performance
increases that we've done here
will make it much faster for you to
host Java server-side applications.
Apple File Services are a
core feature of the server,
and again, we've continued to improve the
performance and the scalability
of the Apple File Services.
Jaguar Server includes enhanced
support for AFP home directories.
We also introduced a new
version of the protocol,
version 3.1.
The 3.1 protocol has a
number of features to it,
one of which we call Auto Reconnect.
Auto Reconnect is a really great feature.
If you are from a Jaguar client,
if you mount a volume
from a Jaguar server,
that volume is there on your desktop.
And even if you don't interact
with that volume very often,
or you sleep your PowerBook and
you wake your PowerBook back up,
that volume is there.
It's still there.
You don't get the disconnect messages.
after long periods of inactivity.
We've also added secure file
sharing support to our server,
allowing Macintosh clients,
Jaguar clients,
to securely connect to Jaguar servers.
And this is an encrypted connection
that we actually tunnel through SSH.
We've had a lot of customer requests
to make it possible to reshare
NFS mounts using the server.
So one of the other new features
that we provide is NFS resharing.
This has a number of...
NFS resharing via AFP.
This has a number of benefits
to users on a network.
Not only can you use the
AFP authentication services to provide
stronger authentication for NFS,
but you can also make NFS volumes
available to other clients,
such as Mac OS 9 clients,
who don't have an NFS client
built into the operating system.
and to support enterprise networks,
enterprise networks that
have deployed Kerberos,
we support Kerberos
version 5 authentication.
As you know,
Mac OS X Server today provides
print services for Macintosh,
Windows, Unix, and Linux clients.
We, again,
continue to improve these print services.
Jaguar Server has support
for AppleTalk sharing,
so we can now share these print
queues via the AppleTalk protocol.
So if you're on a Mac OS X machine,
you can print to the
server using AppleTalk.
Also, if you're on a Mac OS 9 machine,
the print queues show up in the chooser,
and you can just print in the
LaserWriter 8 driver there in the
chooser directly to the server.
We also added support for print quotas.
These are quotas that can be set up
on a per-user or a per-printer basis.
Mac OS X Server version 10.1, a year ago,
was the very first operating system
we released that really had a unified
directory services architecture.
And directory services are really
a way for storing and managing lots
of different types of information.
We use it for storing users, groups,
information,
and also computer information.
You could think of a directory
service as a database of shared
information that lives on a server,
or is even mirrored
between multiple servers.
Today we've announced Open Directory.
So Steve mentioned it
briefly during the keynote,
but let's discuss it a little bit more.
Open Directory is Apple's standards-based
directory service architecture.
It's an extensible architecture,
and it allows for easy integration
with enterprise directory services.
Open Directory uses standards such as
LDAP and the SASL for authentication,
and it also has a wide variety
of authentication methods,
some of which are NT Land Manager,
CRAM MD5, and SHA-1,
but there's a number of other
authentication methods we support.
And with Open Directory,
you can have a shared name and
password that lives on the network
and allows you to go to a wide
variety of computers on your network,
log in against a central system,
and access your resources,
whether it be your home directory
or file services or something
else that's on the network.
So today we're happy to announce
that Apple is open sourcing,
or making it available to
the open source community,
Open Directory.
Today we've posted the current
implementation of Open Directory,
the directory services,
the LDAP version 2 plugin,
NetInfo plugin,
and our search policy plugin
on the Darwin website.
And when Jaguar releases,
we're planning to open source a number of
additional components of Open Directory,
including our LDAP v3 read-write plugin,
a BSD configuration file plugin for read
access to files that are in slash Etsy,
and also a number of
service discovery plugins.
So this is kind of an
architectural diagram of what
Open Directory looks like.
There's a couple different
parts to Open Directory.
One is what we call
Open Directory Access.
And Open Directory Access is really
a mechanism for applications,
maybe they're applications
that run on the desktop,
or server-side applications,
to call and access, via single API,
call and access data that
lives on other directories,
whether it be an LDAP directory,
a NetInfo directory,
or some other directory
that you have a plug-in for.
Thank you.
Then there's the Open Directory Server.
The Open Directory Server is
something that's included in
Mac OS X Server or Jaguar Server,
and it provides support for
LDAP and NetInfo clients,
so via both the LDAP and
NetInfo protocol,
you can access data that's
in the Open Directory.
And Open Directory has a shared database,
so whether you're accessing, again,
via NetInfo or the LDAP protocols,
both requests are talking
to the same database.
So you can use an LDAP tool to modify
data in the directory or a NetInfo
tool to modify data in the directory.
It's all coming out of
the same shared database.
Another component of
Open Directory is the password server.
The password server provides
secure password authentication
and policy enforcement.
So you may want,
as a network administrator,
you may want to set up
various password policies,
force users to change
password at the next login,
disable user accounts,
enforce minimum password links,
and maybe if there's users
that are on your network that
haven't logged in for a while,
maybe you want to disable them as well.
We support all these things
in the password server.
As I mentioned earlier,
we want Mac OS X Server to enable
the perfect Mac OS X workgroup.
Well, how are we doing this?
One of the ways is with something
we call the Workgroup Manager.
Workgroup Manager makes it easy
to set up and manage users,
groups, and computers.
It allows you as a network administrator
to control access to certain
software and hardware features.
And we've really designed this
for both desktops and portables,
so it's very flexible for deploying.
Workgroup Manager allows for,
when you set up a
workgroup on the server,
we actually create a groups directory,
and your workgroup is part
of this group's directory.
And when you log into Mac OS X or Jaguar,
it'll come up and ask you,
which group do you want to be in?
And you as a user have the option to say,
I'm in this group.
And it'll log you into that group,
and you'll get all those preferences
and permissions of that group.
You could even use the workgroup manager
to impose disk quotas on the server,
controlling how much storage
a user has on the server.
So what types of things can you
control with the Workgroup Manager?
Again, I mentioned that the Workgroup
Manager allows you to control users,
groups, and computer lists.
So those are the three data types
that I can assign things to.
And to each of these groups,
each of these types, I can impose access
policies for applications,
which applications can a user launch.
I can control which system
preferences are displayed.
I have full access and full control
over the classic system preferences.
I can control media access.
Can a user plug in a USB drive?
Can they plug in a FireWire drive?
Should it mount?
What happens if a user puts a CD in?
Do I allow them to burn?
Do I allow them to mount the CD?
I can even prevent them
from ejecting a CD.
I can control the display of the dock.
Should it be on the right?
Should it be on the left?
Should it be on the bottom?
What size should it be?
What items should be in the dock?
This is actually a really cool feature.
You have a workgroup,
and you want to say,
everyone inside this workgroup
has the same items in the dock.
Oops.
And I can put both applications
and documents in the doc.
I can have network control
over finder preferences,
finder commands, internet preferences,
login items.
Login items is a nice thing.
You may have a group,
and every time a user
logs into this group,
you may want to have certain
applications automatically launched.
We can even control printers.
Which printers are automatically
assigned to computers?
You can have a bunch of printers.
Which printer is the default printer?
I can control printing.
Which printers can a user print to?
Which can't they print to?
And I can even require a level
of administrator access to
print to some types of printers.
So if you have a very expensive printer,
a color printer,
or an image setter printer,
you may want to control who
can access which printers.
Thank you.
So to make all this stuff possible,
we've built a couple
different applications.
One we call Server Manager,
and it provides management
and administration tools.
I'll show you a little
bit more in a second.
and also a server status application for
remote monitoring of the server activity.
And that server status will be
demonstrated a little bit more
in the following presentation.
And then the Workgroup Manager portion
allows you to control workgroup
preferences and policies and permissions.
So let's have a demo.
of Server Manager and some
of the workgroup management
tools that we provide.
Let's go to demo machine number two.
So this application here that
I have launched is Server Manager.
And if you notice this application here,
I have control over accounts.
So this is users' accounts,
group accounts, and computer accounts.
So if I click users, I can click groups.
I can see various groups that
are assigned to the server,
even computers that you
want the server to manage.
The key point here is that the
data I'm administering from this
application lives in the directory.
So the directory could
be a NetInfo server,
it could be an LDAP server,
it could be our open
directory LDAP server,
it could be an iPlanet server,
it could be an open LDAP server.
It doesn't matter what the directory is.
As long as we support it,
and I have right access
into that directory,
I can use these tools to manage my data.
the data in that directory.
So the first thing I'm going
to do here is I'm going to
create a new user account.
And I'm just going to call this Austin,
because that's my son's name.
It's a good name.
So I've set up a new user on the server,
and I'm going to go into
a couple of these tabs,
and I'm going to say,
when this user logs in,
don't show the workgroups.
I can give this user a login shell.
I can...
I can specify whether I want this
user to get its password policies from
the open directory password server.
I can pick which groups
this user should be in.
Should they be in a math group?
Should they be in an English group?
Should they be in the sales group,
or the marketing group,
or the engineering group?
I can set up where their
home directory lives.
I pick local,
it's gonna mean it's a local,
a home directory local to this server,
and I'm gonna specify which directory
their home directory will be created in.
I can even use this interface to impose
a disk quota on how much data the user
can store in their home directory.
And because I want to manage this user,
I'm going to show you
this in a little bit.
I'm going to say that I want to put the
user's preferences in the directory,
and I'm going to control some of
these preferences about the user.
Let's go ahead and save this.
And the next thing I'm going
to do is I'm going to go over
to this Preferences button,
and with Austin still clicked,
I'm going to set up some preferences.
I'm going to go to the Dock,
and let's go to Dock Items,
and I want to control what items appear
in the user's dock when they log in.
So I'm going to set
these to Manage Always.
I'm going to add Calculator and
let's make this a little bigger.
TextEdit and Mail and Internet.
Add a couple of applications here.
So I'll apply those.
And let's go back and let's
put the dock on the right.
Now, when this user logs in,
I want to have an application
automatically launched.
So I can go to this Login Items here,
and I'm going to assign a
certain application to launch.
Let's just pick TextEdit, for example.
We'll apply that, and I'll click Done.
I have a number of other
features within this interface,
some of which are implemented in
this version of Jaguar Server,
some of which are not.
But I can control which
applications the user can launch,
which applications they can access.
I can even control, I don't know if you
can see this down here,
whether they can launch applications
at a local volume or not,
or whether one application can
sub-launch another application.
I can also control which system
preferences this user sees when
they log into the computer.
So there may be certain system
preferences I don't want them to
be able to administer themselves.
And I also have control
over media access.
Again, I mentioned this earlier.
What happens when they insert
some form of removable media,
whether it be a CD or a DVD or
a USB drive or a FireWire drive,
that type of thing?
Okay, so let's,
now that we have this done,
make sure my settings are right here.
Okay, now what we're gonna do is we're
gonna go to Demo 1 Machine.
On Demo 1 Machine.
Here we go.
So,
at the login window on Demo 1 Machine,
I see this user account called Austin,
and I'm going to log in to that user.
So again, this is a Jaguar,
Jaguar desktop connecting
to Jaguar server,
and the user's home directory
lives on the server.
So this is the first time this
machine's ever connected to the server.
And it's automatically gone
and created a home directory.
So this is the home directory
for the user on the server,
and you'll notice that those applications
that we specified are in the doc,
and I have text edit
automatically launching.
So that's very cool.
So again,
Workgroup Manager is all about creating
the perfect Mac OS X workgroup and
allowing system administrators to
impose some level of restrictions
and control on what the user can do.
One of the challenges
for us here is that,
as a network administrator,
you may want to impose control
and restrictions upon users so
they don't screw up a machine.
But at the same time,
you want the user not to know that those
restrictions are being imposed upon them.
So you want to make a very
smooth experience for them.
So these are all challenges
that we've had to deal with,
but I think it works
really well in the product.
We're also announcing that Jaguar
Server will support Netboot for Mac OS X.
Netboot... Thank you.
Netboot allows you to really
simplify the administration
and reduce your support costs.
With NetBoot, you can take an image and
place it on the server.
And this image contains the operating
system and all the other configurations
that a machine needs to boot.
Think of it as the operating
system for a machine.
It lives on the server.
And when you want to up...
And all the machines on your
network can boot off that image,
that NetBoot image that
lives on the server.
So this is really nice because it
allows you to standardize the deployment
of machines across your network.
When you want to update all
the machines in your network,
you don't have to go to each
individual computer and update them.
You can do them at one place.
You update the image
that lives on the server,
and then simply restart
each of the computers,
and they'll restart and load the
brand-new version of the operating system
or the new updates off the network.
Some of the new things that
we've done with Netboot,
we now allow the server
to host multiple images.
The server can have multiple
images on the server.
And these images are actually now in,
like, disk copy format.
So it's very easy to get in there and
change the configurations if you need to.
Thank you.
Netboot is primarily used
for desktop computers.
Because you are booting your
operating system across the wire,
it's primarily useful
for desktop situations.
But portable users can also use Netboot.
You can, as a network administrator,
build a Netboot image that lives on
the network that maybe includes disk
diagnostics tools and repair utilities.
And when clients have problems,
even if they're an iBook
or a PowerBook user,
they can simply plug in an
Ethernet cable into the computer,
restart off this Netboot image
that lives on the network,
and now they can repair their local
machine without modifying any of
the data on their local machine.
So Netboot is a very useful tool.
It's something that we think
businesses and education environments
should take a greater look at
and start using and deploying.
on their networks.
NetBoot, again,
has a number of other benefits.
You don't have to worry
about a machine changing.
Let's say a user maybe installed
a virus on the machine or is
launching additional processes
that are running on the machine.
You don't have to worry about that.
To get that machine back
to a pristine state,
you simply go to the
machine and restart it,
and it'll get the fresh,
pristine image off the server.
The next new service that
we're introducing in Jaguar
Server is called Network Install,
or Net Install.
And thank you.
Network install is an automated
network software installation service,
and it's great for installing or
restoring or upgrading computers
that live on your network.
This is almost the perfect
tool for OS migrations,
for people moving from one OS to another.
Basically,
it works in a similar fashion to Netboot.
Actually, the base functionality
is based upon Netboot.
You actually do boot off an
image that lives on the network.
But instead of booting into the
finder or booting into login window,
Network Install boots
you into an installer.
And the installer is
the Mac OS X installer
that we have in Jaguar.
And the installer can be configured
for manual or automated installations.
Basically, it works like this.
You have an XML file that contains
all the answers to all the questions
the installer is going to ask.
Hopefully.
And when you do the install,
the installer reads the XML file,
and it says, "Okay, I agree, I agree,
I agree, I agree."
And at any point in there,
it can come up and stop and
require user interaction.
So maybe it stops and says, okay,
pick which disk you want
to be installed onto.
Or whatever, at any point in there.
And then it'll continue on and
finish with the installation.
And it actually runs
through the installer,
and it takes the Mac OS X packages
and installs them onto the local disk.
But what's great about NetInstall is
that you can take your own packages,
your own packages that you've built,
and add to this image.
And when it runs,
it will install your packages
on the local machine,
too.
You could take your own custom scripts,
you know, scripts that you have
that customize a machine.
And you could build them into one
of these packages that you place
in this network install image,
and place that on your network.
And again, because it's based on Netboot,
you can have multiple images
that live on your network.
So you can have one image for marketing,
one image for sales, one image for,
you know, a certain lab,
one image for a certain group.
You can also use NetInstall
to deploy software updates.
Again, these images don't have to
include the operating system.
They can be just packages that
you want to deploy internally.
Could be a copy of Final Cut Pro,
or it could be a software update.
And by placing a software
update as one of these images,
now you can control which
software updates get applied
throughout your environment.
These could be Apple software updates.
They could be your own
software updates as well.
But again, the purpose of NetInstall is
to make it easy to set up,
administer, and manage lots and lots
of Mac OS X machines.
And again, the images are flexible,
so you can customize them at will.
Mac OS X Server includes Apache.
The current version 10.1 today
includes a version of Apache 1.3.
We've again focused on system-wide
performance throughout Jaguar Server,
and we're roughly 4,800 connections
per second using the WebBench 3 test.
So that's pretty fast.
That's enough performance to saturate
about three or four T3 connections.
In this release of Jaguar Server,
in Jaguar Server,
we're not planning to do
administration of Apache 2.
We are going to include Apache 2 on disk,
but because Apache 2 is relatively new,
we weren't able to build
administration tools for it.
So we're going to be focusing
on administration of Apache 1.3,
and including Apache 2.0 on disk.
We've had a lot of customer
requests to improve the
capabilities of our mail server,
and this is something
that we continue to do.
We've been making it more
reliable and more robust.
We've been focusing
on relay restrictions,
SMTP relay restrictions,
to prevent junk mail or spam mail.
In Jaguar Server,
we're introducing SSL IMAP support,
so you can actually encrypt
the connections that are going
between the client and the server,
so no one can run a packet
analyzer on your network and see
the data going back and forth
between the client and the server.
We also have added support
for storage quotas,
so you can say that this
user can only store a certain
amount of mail on the server.
We'll be introducing a webmail
service with Jaguar Server.
It's a standards-based
webmail that's written in PHP,
supports the IMAP and SMTP protocols.
I think one of the greatest things
about it is it's pure HTML 4.0,
so there's no JavaScript,
so it has maximum compatibility with
all the browsers that are out there.
You can access it with a
browser or portable PDA,
and includes rich MIME support,
address books, folder manipulation.
One of the things that we try to do
with Mac OS X Server is provide a
number of high-availability services.
And as you know,
with the current version of the product,
we have some high-availability
services that are designed to
really maximize the server uptime.
One of the new features that
we're introducing in Jaguar
Server is what we call IP Failover.
This allows you to have two servers,
one IP address on one machine and
one IP address on the second machine.
And when one server fails,
if it were to fail,
the other computer will
take over its IP address.
And then when the server comes back up,
it'll gracefully hand
the IP address back.
So we support one-way failover
and also two-way failover.
This is a really interesting service.
Today, we really recommend it for
read-only services that have
minimal replication needs.
It can be a challenge sometimes to get
the back-end data store to synchronize.
And also, another thing,
we do support e-mail notifications of
the entire failover and failback process,
so you can get notifications on
a pager or sent out to e-mail
that a certain computer went down
and that it's now come back up,
or that one server has taken over the
IP address for another on your network.
Again, this is great for read-only data,
such as DNS servers or
caching proxy servers,
static websites,
quick-time streaming servers
that are broadcasting data,
or other services where replication
in the back-end storage isn't key.
I mentioned earlier that
I wanted to spend some time
discussing the differences
between Jaguar Server and Jaguar,
just to make it clear what we're doing.
Because at the heart,
we have one operating system,
but we really have two different
versions of the operating system.
And we're trying to design
Mac OS X Server to be just that,
a great server.
So, here's just some of the differences.
We don't, you know,
focus on classic support.
That's something that we
just don't do in the server.
And, again,
in this slide shows we've really
optimized the core operating system,
the Java VM and the core
operating system for server use.
We include high-availability
services that the desktop doesn't.
Again, designed for, you know,
highest availability of your servers.
So we have hardware reboot,
auto-service restart
with the Watchdog Daemon,
and now IP failover.
Thank you.
In the server, we also focus on remote
administration and monitoring.
You want to remotely, from your,
you know, your desktop computer, um,
look at the server,
see what the state of it is, um,
get a status information, how,
how are the services doing,
how much load is my server taking.
Um, the server does log archiving.
We do compression and
moving of logs periodically.
Um, we're also doing, uh,
drive space monitoring.
So when the drive gets too full, uh,
we can send out notifications
to the administrator,
letting them know of that.
As you saw in the demo,
the server really focuses
on account management.
So we manage user accounts,
group accounts, computer lists,
long names, long passwords,
home directory administration, quotas.
These are all things that
are unique to the server.
and directory and
authentication services.
Jaguar server includes
the open directory server.
We have the password server
for password policies.
And both Jaguar and
Jaguar server include,
you know, L.V3 clients, NetInfo clients,
and can read data from BSD configuration
files that are stored in slash Etsy.
So let's talk a little bit about
developing for Mac OS X Server.
It's great that Apple has all
these features in the product,
but how do you as a developer
build a product and take
advantage of Mac OS X Server and
ultimately make money?
Well, first of all,
why would I build a product for
Mac OS X Server versus Mac OS X?
Well, you design your product for
Mac OS X Server if your product is
designed to be a network resource.
You need absolute maximum reliability,
and it's not really an
end-user application.
It can be something that
lives on the server.
Maybe, you know, clients access it,
but it's really designed to be, you know,
something that lives on a server.
So it doesn't have to
run without a login user.
It might be a BSD process, for example.
You would also develop for
Mac OS X Server if your products
can take advantage of some of
the other services of the server,
maybe some of the network file services,
or you need to take advantage
of some of the high-availability
features that we have with,
you know,
the Watchdog and the IP Failover.
So why develop for Mac OS X Server?
Apple is committed to servers.
This wasn't always true in the past.
If many of you have been in the
Apple community for several years,
you look at the statement,
"Apple is committed to
servers," and you're like,
"Okay, I don't really believe it."
Apple's been down the server road before.
Apple's had server products and
never really gone anywhere with them.
I think things are changing.
You can see that with
Mac OS X Server today.
You can see that with the release of
Jaguar Server to you in your hands today.
Also,
the announcement at the keynote today
about the future of our server hardware.
So Apple is truly committed to servers.
We feel that servers can be used to,
again, build the perfect workgroups.
Servers are used to help us
integrate with enterprise networks.
And we are using servers
as infrastructure to
make it easier to manage,
minister, deploy Mac OS X systems.
Again,
Mac OS X Server is specifically designed
to be a server operating system.
Again, we have one operating system,
two different versions, Mac OS X,
Mac OS X Server.
So this is a growing market.
Apple's getting into the
server market more and more.
And we have this motto, 5% down,
95% to go.
And we really believe that.
We believe that we can grow this market,
and going down the server path
is one way that we can do that.
So this is a growth market for us,
and we recommend that you as a
developer come on board and build
products for Mac OS X Server.
And as Steve mentioned at
the keynote earlier today,
Apple is or will become the
largest distributor of Unix.
So we are out there.
We are shipping more systems with
Unix on them than any other vendor.
So what are some developer
opportunities for you?
Well, let's break them down.
In the server management
and administrative category,
there's a lot of opportunities.
There's log analysis, reporting,
and history.
There's a lot of services
in Mac OS X Server,
and it would be great if a third party
such as yourself were to build log
analysis applications to parse through
that data and provide good reports.
In the server monitoring
administration area,
we also have SNMP support,
so you could build an
MIB for the product,
and that would work as well.
and Backup and Restore.
Backup,
we've got a number of third parties
that have come to the platform
providing backup solutions,
but we want even more.
As a developer,
you could build a middleware application.
It could be a patching module,
a web service that you host,
web objects applications.
Anyone who's doing
development with web objects,
you should take advantage of the server
to deploy those server-side applications.
Also, database access,
accessing databases.
There's room for additional
network file services.
There's network file
services that we do not do,
and also local file services.
The sessions this week talk
about the great file system
architecture that we have,
and how you can build your
own custom file services.
Do things like journaling and
software RAID and that type.
Also, logical volume management,
replication between disks.
There's a lot of opportunities.
You build a high-end
professional print solution,
a RIP that you send a job off to,
and it rips it out to a printer,
or does color separations.
Print job accounting.
There's also a really growing
market for Apple is in SciTech,
with distributed computing.
Computational clusters, render forms,
these are all great areas for
you to come to the platform
and bring your products over.
Eric Zelenk
In the Open Directory category,
you could build an
Open Directory access plugin.
You could build a plugin for
NIS and NIS+. Novell eDirectory
has a number of LDAP v3 extensions.
You could build a plugin for that.
You could build an
Open Directory access plugin that
does on-the-fly schema translation.
Or it may be a custom directory
that you have deployed at your site.
You might build a site-specific
directory service plugin.
And again, you could build an open
directory administration tool,
something that calls into open directory,
that administers data
that lives in a directory.
We're doing that with our
server manager application.
You could build a similar application.
I'll tell you a quick story for a second.
I was able to take WebObjects
5.1 today with no code,
point it at an LDAP server,
and WebObjects, on the fly,
built me an entire user interface of
the data that lived in this LDAP server.
And I had full access,
because I had write access into it,
I had full ability to create new records,
edit records, delete records,
and that's with no code.
So, as a developer, writing code,
it's amazing all the tools that you'll
be able to build with this technology.
Also,
there's some server hardware solutions,
RAID, storage arrays, UPS,
and backup devices.
These are things that can be, you know,
across the platform.
So, the rest of the week,
there's a number of sessions
that I really encourage you
to attend if you're interested
in finding more out about what
we're doing with Mac OS X Server.
Following this session here, 801,
in this same room,
we'll have a session called
Mac OS X Server in Depth.
and engineers will be up here,
and they'll be talking in great detail
about some of the new capabilities
that we provide in Jaguar Server.
On Thursday, there'll be a session called
NetBoot and Network Install.
If you're interested in finding
out how you can configure or
take advantage of these services,
please attend that session.
Also, if you have an application,
and your application,
you'd like to support NetBoot
with your application,
that would be a good session to attend.
Thursday, 8:13, Directory Services.
Find out more about Open Directory,
how to build an
Open Directory access plugin.
Also, find out more about the
Open Directory Server.
Session 8.14,
Kerberos and Mac OS X on Thursday.
Talk more about what we're doing
with Kerberos on the platform.
Also, some of the new Kerberos features
that we have in Jaguar Server.
Friday, 8:15,
Developing for the Managed Desktop.
This is where you can find out how to
build a product that takes advantage
of Workgroup Manager and how to make
sure your product is compatible with
that so you don't have any conflicts.
And then, of course, we have the server
feedback session on Friday.
So if you have information,
if you have questions and are
wondering who to contact at
Apple for more information,
Tom Weier, he's in Developer Relations,
Networking Communications Evangelist,
or you can contact myself.
And there's our email addresses.
There's the server feedback
session again on Friday.
And there's an email address that we
have called server-feedback at apple.com.
So if there's feedback
that you want to get,
you know, send to us about the server,
and you're not able to attend
the feedback session on Friday,
please send it to that email address.
We have some more information
about Mac OS X Server,
specifically Jaguar Server.
Let's see here.
If you have your copy of Jaguar Server,
there's two CDs inside here.
On the second CD is entitled Admin Tools,
and there's a very large
PDF in there that is the,
you know, it's a beta or draft version
of the documentation that
we're planning to provide with
Jaguar Server when it releases.
So if you have questions about
some of the services or how to
set them up and how to deploy
them or you need more information,
take a look at the PDF that's
included on the Admin Tools CD.
Also take a look at the
Mac OS X Server website.
There's a lot of documentation up there,
information about NetInfo, LDAP support,
and integrating with Active Directory.
And also take a look at the
open source website for Darwin,
Darwin Server, and Open Directory.
So that concludes the presentation.